---
layout: tindallgram
date: Mar 30 1966 
from: FM/Deputy Chief, Apollo Data Prioty Coordination
serial: 68-PA-T-57A
subject: Automatic rendezvous braking maneuver
---

1. The Midcorse Phase Data Priority Meeting of March 6 was devoted to 
the earth orbital phase evalutation of guidanace systems to make the trans-lunar
injection (TLI) Go/No Go decision. It was reported at the outset 
that a new set of ground rules have been established with regard to this 
subject. They are:

  (a) A TLI manuever will not be attempted if there is any indication 
  that the S-IVB IU guidance system is not working properly.
  
  (b) A properly operating CSM PNGCS is not mandatory for TLI. That
  is, it is acceptable  to make a TLI maneuver with a failed CSM PNGCS if
  the subsequent alternate mission is considered more valuable than remaining 
  in earth orbit.
  
Rationale for these ground rules is given in Memorandum No. 68-PA-T-56A
(H. W. Tindall), dated March 7, 1968. The manner in which we may detect
S-IVB IU failure is also presented in that memo and is partially reproduced
in this one to make the rest of it more understandable.

2. There are two sources of S-IVB failure indication. The first is
the S-IVB's own failure detection system which indicates failures via 
telemetery. The second is by comparison with the CSM PNGCS and MSFN tracking.
These comparisons, it must be emphasized, are extremely gross. That 
is the S-IVB IU is designed to be at least an order of magnitude more
precise than the CBM PNGCS and the MSFN.  Thus, these monitoring systems---
telemetry, CSM, and MSFN--- for example, 30 to 100 sigma! Whereas, MBFC's 
definition of a definitely and absolutely broken IU is anything beyond
3 sigma. Therefore, the actual limits we would select for TLI Go/No Go 
dependably, detectable failure. That is, we would use the smallest 
failure which we can confidently attribute to the S-IVB rather than the 
comparison system itself. Deviatons in excess of that ammount are 
certainly true S-IVB IU failures and would result in a No Go for TLI.

3.

4.

5.

6.

7.

8.

  (a)
  (b)

9.
